# Credit-card-fraud-detection
Due to a rapid advancement in the electronic commerce technology, the use of credit cards has dramatically increased. As credit card becomes the most popular mode of payment for both online as well as regular purchase, cases of fraud associated with it are also rising. Financial fraud is an ever growing menace with far consequences in the financial industry. Data mining had played an imperative role in the detection of credit card fraud in online transactions. Credit card fraud detection, which is a data mining problem, becomes challenging due to two major reasons – first, the profiles of normal and fraudulent behaviours change constantly and secondly, credit card fraud data sets are highly skewed. The performance of fraud detection in credit card transactions is greatly affected by the sampling approach on dataset, selection of variables and detection technique(s) used. In credit card fraud detection project, we will fit our first model. We will begin with logistic regression. A logistic regression is used for modelling the outcome probability of a class such as pass/fail, positive/negative and in our case – fraud/not fraud. The goal of the task is to automatically identify fraudulent credit card transactions using Machine Learning. Dataset of credit card transactions is sourced from cardholders containing 284,807 transactions. A hybrid technique of under-sampling and oversampling is carried out on the skewed data. The three techniques are applied on the raw and pre processed data. The work is implemented in Python. The performance of the techniques is evaluated based on accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, correlation coefficient and balanced classification rate. The results shows of optimal accuracy for naïve bayes, k-nearest neighbour and logistic regression classifiers are more than 90%. The comparative results show that k-nearest neighbour performs better than naïve bayes and logistic regression techniques
